hey how's it going dave2d here
this is the 2018 helios 300. the
previous version
the 2017 helios 300 was one of the best
if not the best valued gaming laptop
from last year it had a bunch of great
features for a really good price point
and they've updated a bunch of things
particularly the things that i had
issues with last year
and they've made a significantly
revamped product so the big three
changes are the screen
the cpu as well as the thermal design so
the exterior casing hasn't changed at
all it's still running this black and
red color scheme
it looks almost a little dated to me
like a lot of the newer generation
laptops
are going with a more muted look as well
as a less angular design
this has that whole predator dna going
on it looks pretty aggressive and it
looks really
gamer kind of over the top gamer but it
still looks decent if you're into this
look
i personally don't love it but that's
just a personal preference
one thing that this doesn't have is a
thunderbolt 3 port it has a usbc support
just like the previous generation but
once again it doesn't support
thunderbolt 3. the rest of the port
selection is good and they're well
positioned just
no thunderbolt 3. so if you want to
connect up an external gpu you can't do
it
the internals are just as difficult to
get into this year as it was last year
you have to be careful not to snap the
tabs when you're opening it up
especially on the back parts
once you're in though you have access to
the wi-fi card but they already give you
a great one
your two ram slots and the two drive
bays you also have access to the fans
now the fans have been upgraded this
year
these are actually running metal fins
which is actually something i don't see
very often in gaming laptops
it's these thin metal blades that
actually help quite a bit with the
airflow
the battery and the speakers weren't
great in the 2017 model i don't think
they've changed them this year
it's 48 watt hour battery you're getting
around four hours of battery life
not a very long time you will have to
bring a charger with you and the
speakers also remain
quite mediocre they get pretty loud not
a lot of bass but they sound
kind of flat now in 2017 i didn't care
too much about these speakers but in
2018 a lot of the mid
and even entry-level gaming laptops have
really decent speakers
and these ones fall a little bit short
inside they have a brand new screen i
think it's actually the most surprising
and best feature of this laptop
it's a 144hz screen on a reasonably
priced gaming laptop it's fast
it's bright it's reasonably color
accurate it's actually really cool that
they're able to use a screen like this
at this price point and i actually think
that this particular gaming laptop
is going to have an effect on the entire
industry because almost every other
gaming laptop at this price point
is taking a 60hz screen onto those
devices and
this product just sticks out as being
the most visually enticing and visually
attractive gaming experience
for the people that are unfamiliar with
gaming refresh rates the difference
between a 60 hertz screen
and a 144 or even a 120 hertz screen is
massive everything looks just so much
more fluid
on a high refresh screen and i'm not
going to say that if you purchase one of
these screens
you're going to instantly become a
better gamer it's not that it's just the
gaming experience is a lot better
and i think it'll help you achieve
better results you're essentially seeing
double the number of frames versus a
60hz screen
so it's just a better experience the
keyboard and the trackpad haven't
changed from the previous generation i
didn't love either of them
the keyboard is decent it's got
relatively soft stroke
but the layout's good the only thing
that's a little bit weird with the
layout is the shift key again they
haven't changed that
it's just right beside the up arrow and
depending on how you type you might hit
that accidentally
but decent keyboard overall the trackpad
the buttons are a little bit stiff but
it's using windows precision drivers
so it's got good gestures and tracking
performance on this device
is great now this model is running a gtx
1060 and it's comboed with the six core
i7
and it delivers really respectable frame
rates for most gaming titles out there
if you're playing something heavier you
obviously have to drop your visual
quality to keep up the frame rates
but it's a good combination you won't be
able to max out the 140 hertz screen
on most games at ultra but you can for a
lot of games especially competitive
games
on high now the thermal performance on
this laptop is improved this year
not that it was terrible last year or
anything but it is better there's no
throttling and the temperatures are a
little bit lower
fan noise is also very respectable
nothing too loud even on max
and you also get fan control through
predator sense one last thing to note
there's a special edition of the helios
300 that's gonna be available later
it comes in white and gold no changes
internally it's just an aesthetic change
so overall the helios 300 is once again
a fantastic value
for gaming laptops it's amazing that
they're able to stick a 144 hertz screen
into this kind of price point
it's a really good screen now if you're
fixated on that screen like if you're
interested in this device exclusively
because of that screen
understand that there are ways to stick
high refresh screens onto other devices
it's a more do-it-yourself route costs
like 100 maybe 150 dollars
but if you want something out of the
factory you want just that
you know the whole experience right out
of the box you don't want to mess around
with installing
high refresh screens into cheaper
devices i seriously think this is
the best value for this kind of device
okay hope you guys enjoyed this video
thumbs if you liked it subs if you loved
it see you guys next time